README.md, before:

## Google I/O 2016 web app

### Setup

Prerequisites

* [Go 1.4](https://golang.org/dl/).
* Optional: [gcloud tool](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/#Quick_Start)
  and [app](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud-app#Installation) component
  to run and deploy GAE-based backend (hint: `gcloud components update app`).

  Once `gcloud` and `app` component are installed, you'll need to do a one-off
  configuration by executing the following command: `gcloud config set project <project-id>`.
  Project ID can be any non-empty string if you just want to run the app locally.

Setup

1. `git clone https://github.com/GoogleChrome/ioweb2016.git`
2. `cd ioweb2016`
3. `npm install`

If you plan on modifying source code, be a good citizen and:

1. Install [EditorConfig plugin](http://editorconfig.org/#download) for your favourite browser.
   The plugin should automatically pick up the [.editorconfig](.editorconfig) settings.
2. Obey the pre-commit hook that's installed as part of `gulp setup`.
   It will check for JavaScript and code style errors before committing to the `master` branch.

### Running

Run `gulp serve` to start a standalone backend, while still enjoying live-reload.
You'll need Go for that.

Normally the app is running in "dev" environment but you can change that
by providing `--env` argument to the gulp task:

  ```
  # run in dev mode, default:
  gulp serve
  # set app environment to production:
  gulp serve --env prod
  # or run as if we were in staging:
  gulp serve --env stage
  ```

Not that this does not change the way the backend code is compiled
or the front-end is built. It merely changes a variable values,
which the app takes into account when rendering a page or responding to a request.

Running in `stage` or `prod` requires real credentials when accessing external services.
You'll need to run a one-off `gulp decrypt` which will decrypt a service account private key.

You can also use GAE dev appserver by running `gulp serve:gae`. This is closer to what
we're using in our webapp environment but a bit slower on startup.
You'll need `gcloud` tool and `app` component to do this.

To change the app environment when using GAE SDK, provide `--env` argument:

  ```
  # run in dev mode, default:
  gulp serve:gae
  # set app environment to production:
  gulp serve:gae --env prod
  # or run as if we were in staging:
  gulp serve:gae --env stage
  ```

Other arguments are:

* `--no-watch` don't watch for file changes and recompile relative bits.
* `--open` open serving url in a new browser tab on start.
* `--reload` enable live reload. Always watches for file changes; `--no-watch` will have no effect.

### Building

Run `gulp`. This will create `dist` directory with both front-end and backend parts, ready for deploy.

**Note**: Build won't succeed if either `gulp jshint` or `gulp jscs` reports errors.

You can also serve the build from `dist` by running `gulp serve:dist`,
and navigating to http://localhost:8080.

`serve:dist` runs the app in `prod` mode by default. You can change that
by providing the `--env` argument as with other `serve` tasks. For instance:

  ```
  # run in stage instead of prod
  gulp serve:dist --env stage
  ```

### Deploying

To deploy complete application on App Engine:

1. Run `gulp` which will build both frontend and backend in `dist` directory.
2. Run `gcloud preview app deploy dist/backend --version <v>`.

The app will be deployed to the project configured in `gcloud` tool.
To check which project you're deploying to, run `gcloud config list`
and look for `project = ...` line.

## Backend

Backend is written in Go. It can run on either Google App Engine or any other platform as a standalone
binary program.

`gulp backend` will build a self-sufficient backend server and place the binary in `backend/bin/server`.

`gulp backend:test` will run backend server tests. If, while working on the backend, you feel tired
of running the command again and again, use `gulp backend:test --watch` to watch for file changes
and re-run tests automatically.

Add `--gae` cmd line argument to the test task to run GAE-based tests.


## Debugging

A list of tools to help in a debugging process.
**NOT available in prod**

### Proxy with the service account credentials

```
http://HOST/io2016/debug/srvget?url=<some-url>
```

The backend will GET `some-url` and respond back with the original
status code, content-type header and the content.

Useful for browsing original CMS data on staging GCS bucket:

[go/iowastaging/debug/srvget?url=https://storage.googleapis.com/io2015-data-dev.google.com.a.appspot.com/manifest_v1.json](http://go/iowastaging/debug/srvget?url=https://storage.googleapis.com/io2015-data-dev.google.com.a.appspot.com/manifest_v1.json)


### List contents of Google Drive AppFolder.

TODO


### Send GCM push notifications

```
http://HOST/io2016/debug/push
```

Follow instructions on that page.

On staging server this is [go/iowastaging/debug/push](http://go/iowastaging/debug/push)


### Re-sync local datastore with remote

```
http://HOST/io2016/debug/sync
```

* dev server: [localhost:3000/io2016/debug/sync](http://localhost:3000/io2016/debug/sync)
* staging: [go/iowastaging/debug/sync](http://go/iowastaging/debug/sync)

## Testing

Frontend tests are run via https://github.com/Polymer/web-component-tester

Configuration is in wct.conf.js.

To run tests, install wct globally:

    npm install -g web-component-tester

and run:

    wct

Commit message:

Backend: switch from gcloud to dev_appserver.py
gcloud doesn't support golang anymore.
They recommend using plain old GAE SDK.

README.md, after:

## Google I/O 2016 web app

### Setup

Prerequisites

* [Go 1.4](https://golang.org/dl/).
* Optional: [Google App Engine SDK for Go](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/downloads).
  Once installed, make sure the SDK root dir is in `$PATH`. You can verify it's been setup
  correctly by running `goapp version`, which should output something like
  `go version go1.4.2 (appengine-1.9.30) darwin/amd64`.

Setup

1. `git clone https://github.com/GoogleChrome/ioweb2016.git`
2. `cd ioweb2016`
3. `npm install`

If you plan on modifying source code, be a good citizen and:

1. Install [EditorConfig plugin](http://editorconfig.org/#download) for your favourite browser.
   The plugin should automatically pick up the [.editorconfig](.editorconfig) settings.
2. Obey the pre-commit hook that's installed as part of `gulp setup`.
   It will check for JavaScript and code style errors before committing to the `master` branch.

### Running

Run `gulp serve` to start a standalone backend, while still enjoying live-reload.
You'll need Go for that.

Normally the app is running in "dev" environment but you can change that
by providing `--env` argument to the gulp task:

  ```
  # run in dev mode, default:
  gulp serve
  # set app environment to production:
  gulp serve --env prod
  # or run as if we were in staging:
  gulp serve --env stage
  ```

Not that this does not change the way the backend code is compiled
or the front-end is built. It merely changes a "environment" variable value,
which the app takes into account when rendering a page or responding to a request.

Running in `stage` or `prod` requires real credentials when accessing external services.
You'll need to run a one-off `gulp decrypt` which will decrypt a service account private key.

You can also use GAE dev appserver by running `gulp serve:gae`. This is closer to what
we're using in our webapp environment but a bit slower on startup.
You'll need Google App Engine SDK for Go to do this.

To change the app environment when using GAE SDK, provide `--env` argument:

    # run in dev mode, default:
    gulp serve:gae
    # set app environment to production:
    gulp serve:gae --env prod
    # or run as if we were in staging:
    gulp serve:gae --env stage

Other arguments are:

* `--no-watch` don't watch for file changes and recompile relative bits.
* `--open` open serving url in a new browser tab on start.
* `--reload` enable live reload. Always watches for file changes; `--no-watch` will have no effect.

### Building

Run `gulp`. This will create `dist` directory with both front-end and backend parts, ready for deploy.

**Note**: Build won't succeed if either `gulp jshint` or `gulp jscs` reports errors.

You can also serve the build from `dist` by running `gulp serve:dist`,
and navigating to http://localhost:8080.

`serve:dist` runs the app in `prod` mode by default. You can change that
by providing the `--env` argument as with other `serve` tasks. For instance:

    # run in stage instead of prod
    gulp serve:dist --env stage

### Deploying

To deploy complete application on App Engine:

1. Run `gulp` which will build both frontend and backend in `dist` directory.
2. Run `GAE_SDK/goapp deploy -application <app-id> -version <v>`.

## Backend

Backend is written in Go. It can run on either Google App Engine or any other platform as a standalone
binary program.

`gulp backend` will build a self-sufficient backend server and place the binary in `backend/bin/server`.

`gulp backend:test` will run backend server tests. If, while working on the backend, you feel tired
of running the command again and again, use `gulp backend:test --watch` to watch for file changes
and re-run tests automatically.

Add `--gae` cmd line argument to the test task to run GAE-based tests.


## Debugging

A list of tools to help in a debugging process.
**NOT available in prod**

### Proxy with the service account credentials

```
http://HOST/io2016/debug/srvget?url=<some-url>
```

The backend will GET `some-url` and respond back with the original
status code, content-type header and the content.

Useful for browsing original CMS data on staging GCS bucket:

[go/iowastaging/debug/srvget?url=https://storage.googleapis.com/io2015-data-dev.google.com.a.appspot.com/manifest_v1.json](http://go/iowastaging/debug/srvget?url=https://storage.googleapis.com/io2015-data-dev.google.com.a.appspot.com/manifest_v1.json)


### List contents of Google Drive AppFolder.

TODO


### Send GCM push notifications

```
http://HOST/io2016/debug/push
```

Follow instructions on that page.

On staging server this is [go/iowastaging/debug/push](http://go/iowastaging/debug/push)


### Re-sync local datastore with remote

```
http://HOST/io2016/debug/sync
```

* dev server: [localhost:3000/io2016/debug/sync](http://localhost:3000/io2016/debug/sync)
* staging: [go/iowastaging/debug/sync](http://go/iowastaging/debug/sync)

## Testing

Frontend tests are run via https://github.com/Polymer/web-component-tester

Configuration is in wct.conf.js.

To run tests, install wct globally:

    npm install -g web-component-tester

and run:

    wct
